# Query Builder Class

CodeIgniter gives you access to a Query Builder class. This pattern
allows information to be retrieved, inserted, and updated in your
database with minimal scripting. In some cases, only one or two lines of
code are necessary to perform a database action. CodeIgniter does not
require that each database table be its own class file. It instead
provides a more simplified interface.

Beyond simplicity, a major benefit to using the Query Builder features
is that it allows you to create database independent applications, since
the query syntax is generated by each database adapter. It also allows
for safer queries, since the values are escaped automatically by the
system.

> [!NOTE]
> CodeIgniter doesn't support dots (`.`) in the database, table, and
> column names.

<div class="contents" local="" depth="2">

</div>

## SQL Injection Protection

You can generate SQL statements quite safely with the Query Builder.
However, it is not designed to prevent SQL injection no matter what data
you pass.

Arguments passed to the Query Builder can be:  
1.  **identifiers** such as field (or table) names
2.  their **values**
3.  a part of **SQL strings**

The Query Builder will escape all **values** by default.

It will also try to properly protect **identifiers** and identifiers in
**SQL strings** by default. However, it is implemented to work well in
many use cases and is not designed to prevent all attacks. Therefore,
you should never feed in user input to them without proper validation.

Also, many methods have the `$escape` parameter that can be set to
disable escaping. If `$escape` is set to false, no protection is
provided by the Query Builder, so you must ensure by yourself that they
are properly escaped or protected before passing it to the Query
Builder. The same is true when using `RawSql`, which specifies a raw SQL
statement.

## Loading the Query Builder

The Query Builder is loaded through the `table()` method on the database
connection. This sets the **FROM** portion of the query for you and
returns a new instance of the Query Builder class:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/001.php

</div>

The Query Builder is only loaded into memory when you specifically
request the class, so no resources are used by default.

## Selecting Data

The following methods allow you to build SQL **SELECT** statements.

### Get

#### \$builder-\>get()

Runs the selection query and returns the result. Can be used by itself
to retrieve all records from a table:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/002.php

</div>

The first and second parameters enable you to set a limit and offset
clause:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/003.php

</div>

You'll notice that the above method is assigned to a variable named
\$query, which can be used to show the results:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/004.php

</div>

Please visit the `getResult*() method <results>` page for a full
discussion regarding result generation.

#### \$builder-\>getCompiledSelect()

Compiles the selection query just like `$builder->get()` but does not
*run* the query. This method simply returns the SQL query as a string.

Example:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/005.php

</div>

The first parameter enables you to set whether or not the query builder
query will be reset (by default it will be reset, just like when using
`$builder->get()`):

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/006.php

</div>

The key thing to notice in the above example is that the second query
did not utilize `limit(10, 20)` but the generated SQL query has
`LIMIT 20, 10`. The reason for this outcome is because the first
parameter is set to `false`.

#### \$builder-\>getWhere()

Identical to the `get()` method except that it permits you to add a
"where" clause in the first parameter, instead of using the
`$builder->where()` method:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/007.php

</div>

Please read about the `where()` method below for more information.

### Select

#### \$builder-\>select()

Permits you to write the **SELECT** portion of your query:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/008.php

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> If you are selecting all (`*`) from a table you do not need to use
> this method. When omitted, CodeIgniter assumes that you wish to select
> all fields and automatically adds `SELECT *`.

`$builder->select()` accepts an optional second parameter. If you set it
to `false`, CodeIgniter will not try to protect your field or table
names. This is useful if you need a compound select statement where
automatic escaping of fields may break them.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/009.php

</div>

##### RawSql

<div class="versionadded">

4.2.0

</div>

Since v4.2.0, `$builder->select()` accepts a
`CodeIgniter\Database\RawSql` instance, which expresses raw SQL strings.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/099.php

</div>

> [!WARNING]
> When you use `RawSql`, you MUST escape the values and protect the
> identifiers manually. Failure to do so could result in SQL injections.

#### \$builder-\>selectMax()

Writes a **SELECT MAX(field)** portion for your query. You can
optionally include a second parameter to rename the resulting field.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/010.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>selectMin()

Writes a **SELECT MIN(field)** portion for your query. As with
`selectMax()`, You can optionally include a second parameter to rename
the resulting field.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/011.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>selectAvg()

Writes a **SELECT AVG(field)** portion for your query. As with
`selectMax()`, You can optionally include a second parameter to rename
the resulting field.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/012.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>selectSum()

Writes a **SELECT SUM(field)** portion for your query. As with
`selectMax()`, You can optionally include a second parameter to rename
the resulting field.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/013.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>selectCount()

Writes a **SELECT COUNT(field)** portion for your query. As with
`selectMax()`, You can optionally include a second parameter to rename
the resulting field.

> [!NOTE]
> This method is particularly helpful when used with `groupBy()`. For
> counting results generally see `countAll()` or `countAllResults()`.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/014.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>selectSubquery()

Adds a subquery to the SELECT section.

<div class="literalinclude" lines="2-">

query_builder/015.php

</div>

### From

#### \$builder-\>from()

Permits you to write the **FROM** portion of your query:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/016.php

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> As shown earlier, the **FROM** portion of your query can be specified
> in the `$db->table()` method. Additional calls to `from()` will add
> more tables to the FROM portion of your query.

### Subqueries

#### \$builder-\>fromSubquery()

Permits you to write part of a **FROM** query as a subquery.

This is where we add a subquery to an existing table:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/017.php

</div>

Use the `$db->newQuery()` method to make a subquery the main table:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/018.php

</div>

### Join

#### \$builder-\>join()

Permits you to write the **JOIN** portion of your query:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/019.php

</div>

Multiple method calls can be made if you need several joins in one
query.

If you need a specific type of **JOIN** you can specify it via the third
parameter of the method. Options are: `left`, `right`, `outer`, `inner`,
`left outer`, and `right outer`.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/020.php

</div>

##### RawSql

<div class="versionadded">

4.2.0

</div>

Since v4.2.0, `$builder->join()` accepts a `CodeIgniter\Database\RawSql`
instance, which expresses raw SQL strings.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/102.php

</div>

> [!WARNING]
> When you use `RawSql`, you MUST escape the values and protect the
> identifiers manually. Failure to do so could result in SQL injections.

## Looking for Specific Data

### Where

#### \$builder-\>where()

This method enables you to set **WHERE** clauses using one of five
methods:

> [!NOTE]
> All values passed to this method are escaped automatically, producing
> safer queries, except when using a custom string.

> [!NOTE]
> `$builder->where()` accepts an optional third parameter. If you set it
> to `false`, CodeIgniter will not try to protect your field or table
> names.

##### 1. Simple key/value method

> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/021.php
>
> </div>
>
> Notice that the equal sign is added for you.
>
> If you use multiple method calls they will be chained together with
> **AND** between them:
>
> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/022.php
>
> </div>

##### 2. Custom key/value method

> You can include an operator in the first parameter in order to control
> the comparison:
>
> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/023.php
>
> </div>

##### 3. Associative array method

> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/024.php
>
> </div>
>
> You can include your own operators using this method as well:
>
> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/025.php
>
> </div>

##### 4. Custom string

> You can write your own clauses manually:
>
> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/026.php
>
> </div>
>
> > [!WARNING]
> > If you are using user-supplied data within the string, you MUST
> > escape the values and protect the identifiers manually. Failure to
> > do so could result in SQL injections.
> >
> > <div class="literalinclude">
> >
> > query_builder/027.php
> >
> > </div>

##### 5. RawSql

> <div class="versionadded">
>
> 4.2.0
>
> </div>
>
> Since v4.2.0, `$builder->where()` accepts a
> `CodeIgniter\Database\RawSql` instance, which expresses raw SQL
> strings.
>
> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/100.php
>
> </div>
>
> > [!WARNING]
> > When you use `RawSql`, you MUST escape the values and protect the
> > identifiers manually. Failure to do so could result in SQL
> > injections.

##### 6. Subqueries

> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/028.php
>
> </div>

#### \$builder-\>orWhere()

This method is identical to the one above, except that multiple
instances are joined by **OR**:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/029.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>whereIn()

Generates a **WHERE** field IN ('item', 'item') SQL query joined with
**AND** if appropriate:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/030.php

</div>

You can use subqueries instead of an array of values:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/031.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>orWhereIn()

Generates a **WHERE field IN ('item', 'item')** SQL query joined with
**OR** if appropriate:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/032.php

</div>

You can use subqueries instead of an array of values:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/033.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>whereNotIn()

Generates a **WHERE field NOT IN ('item', 'item')** SQL query joined
with **AND** if appropriate:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/034.php

</div>

You can use subqueries instead of an array of values:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/035.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>orWhereNotIn()

Generates a **WHERE field NOT IN ('item', 'item')** SQL query joined
with **OR** if appropriate:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/036.php

</div>

You can use subqueries instead of an array of values:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/037.php

</div>

## Looking for Similar Data

### Like

#### \$builder-\>like()

This method enables you to generate **LIKE** clauses, useful for doing
searches.

> [!NOTE]
> All values passed to this method are escaped automatically.

> [!NOTE]
> All `like*` method variations can be forced to perform
> case-insensitive searches by passing a fifth parameter of `true` to
> the method. This will use platform-specific features where available
> otherwise, will force the values to be lowercase, i.e.,
> `WHERE LOWER(column) LIKE '%search%'`. This may require indexes to be
> made for `LOWER(column)` instead of `column` to be effective.

##### 1. Simple key/value method

> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/038.php
>
> </div>
>
> If you use multiple method calls they will be chained together with
> **AND** between them:
>
> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/039.php
>
> </div>
>
> If you want to control where the wildcard (**%**) is placed, you can
> use an optional third argument. Your options are `before`, `after` and
> `both` (which is the default).
>
> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/040.php
>
> </div>

##### 2. Associative array method

> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/041.php
>
> </div>

##### 3. RawSql

> <div class="versionadded">
>
> 4.2.0
>
> </div>
>
> Since v4.2.0, `$builder->like()` accepts a
> `CodeIgniter\Database\RawSql` instance, which expresses raw SQL
> strings.
>
> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/101.php
>
> </div>
>
> > [!WARNING]
> > When you use `RawSql`, you MUST escape the values and protect the
> > identifiers manually. Failure to do so could result in SQL
> > injections.

#### \$builder-\>orLike()

This method is identical to the one above, except that multiple
instances are joined by **OR**:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/042.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>notLike()

This method is identical to `like()`, except that it generates **NOT
LIKE** statements:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/043.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>orNotLike()

This method is identical to `notLike()`, except that multiple instances
are joined by **OR**:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/044.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>groupBy()

Permits you to write the **GROUP BY** portion of your query:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/045.php

</div>

You can also pass an array of multiple values as well:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/046.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>distinct()

Adds the **DISTINCT** keyword to a query

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/047.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>having()

Permits you to write the **HAVING** portion of your query. There are 2
possible syntaxes, 1 argument or 2:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/048.php

</div>

You can also pass an array of multiple values as well:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/049.php

</div>

If you are using a database that CodeIgniter escapes values for, you can
prevent escaping content by passing an optional third argument, and
setting it to `false`.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/050.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>orHaving()

Identical to `having()`, only separates multiple clauses with **OR**.

#### \$builder-\>havingIn()

Generates a **HAVING field IN ('item', 'item')** SQL query joined with
**AND** if appropriate:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/051.php

</div>

You can use subqueries instead of an array of values:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/052.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>orHavingIn()

Generates a **HAVING field IN ('item', 'item')** SQL query joined with
**OR** if appropriate

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/053.php

</div>

You can use subqueries instead of an array of values:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/054.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>havingNotIn()

Generates a **HAVING field NOT IN ('item', 'item')** SQL query joined
with **AND** if appropriate

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/055.php

</div>

You can use subqueries instead of an array of values:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/056.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>orHavingNotIn()

Generates a **HAVING field NOT IN ('item', 'item')** SQL query joined
with **OR** if appropriate

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/057.php

</div>

You can use subqueries instead of an array of values:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/058.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>havingLike()

This method enables you to generate **LIKE** clauses for **HAVING** part
or the query, useful for doing searches.

> [!NOTE]
> All values passed to this method are escaped automatically.

> [!NOTE]
> All `havingLike*()` method variations can be forced to perform
> case-insensitive searches by passing a fifth parameter of `true` to
> the method. This will use platform-specific features where available
> otherwise, will force the values to be lowercase, i.e.,
> `HAVING LOWER(column) LIKE '%search%'`. This may require indexes to be
> made for `LOWER(column)` instead of `column` to be effective.

##### 1. Simple key/value method

> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/059.php
>
> </div>
>
> If you use multiple method calls they will be chained together with
> **AND** between them:
>
> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/060.php
>
> </div>
>
> If you want to control where the wildcard (**%**) is placed, you can
> use an optional third argument. Your options are `before`, `after` and
> `both` (which is the default).
>
> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/061.php
>
> </div>

##### 2. Associative array method

> <div class="literalinclude">
>
> query_builder/062.php
>
> </div>

#### \$builder-\>orHavingLike()

This method is identical to the one above, except that multiple
instances are joined by **OR**:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/063.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>notHavingLike()

This method is identical to `havingLike()`, except that it generates
**NOT LIKE** statements:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/064.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>orNotHavingLike()

This method is identical to `notHavingLike()`, except that multiple
instances are joined by **OR**:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/065.php

</div>

## Ordering Results

### OrderBy

#### \$builder-\>orderBy()

Lets you set an **ORDER BY** clause.

The first parameter contains the name of the column you would like to
order by.

The second parameter lets you set the direction of the result. Options
are `ASC`, `DESC` AND `RANDOM`.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/066.php

</div>

You can also pass your own string in the first parameter:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/067.php

</div>

Or multiple method calls can be made if you need multiple fields.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/068.php

</div>

If you choose the `RANDOM` direction option, then the first parameters
will be ignored, unless you specify a numeric seed value.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/069.php

</div>

## Limiting or Counting Results

### Limit

#### \$builder-\>limit()

Lets you limit the number of rows you would like returned by the query:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/070.php

</div>

The second parameter lets you set a result offset.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/071.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>countAllResults()

Permits you to determine the number of rows in a particular Query
Builder query. Queries will accept Query Builder restrictors such as
`where()`, `orWhere()`, `like()`, `orLike()`, etc. Example:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/072.php

</div>

However, this method also resets any field values that you may have
passed to `select()`. If you need to keep them, you can pass `false` as
the first parameter.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/073.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>countAll()

Permits you to determine the number of rows in a particular table.
Example:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/074.php

</div>

As is in `countAllResult()` method, this method resets any field values
that you may have passed to `select()` as well. If you need to keep
them, you can pass `false` as the first parameter.

## Union queries

### Union

#### \$builder-\>union()

Is used to combine the result-set of two or more SELECT statements. It
will return only the unique results.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/103.php

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> For correct work with DBMS (such as MSSQL and Oracle) queries are
> wrapped in `SELECT * FROM ( ... ) alias` The main query will always
> have an alias of `uwrp0`. Each subsequent query added via `union()`
> will have an alias `uwrpN+1`.

All union queries will be added after the main query, regardless of the
order in which the `union()` method was called. That is, the `limit()`
or `orderBy()` methods will be relative to the main query, even if
called after `union()`.

In some cases, it may be necessary, for example, to sort or limit the
number of records of the query result. The solution is to use the
wrapper created via `$db->newQuery()`. In the example below, we get the
first 5 users + the last 5 users and sort the result by id:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/104.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>unionAll()

The behavior is the same as the `union()` method. However, all results
will be returned, not just the unique ones.

## Query grouping

### Group

Query grouping allows you to create groups of **WHERE** clauses by
enclosing them in parentheses. This will allow you to create queries
with complex **WHERE** clauses. Nested groups are supported. Example:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/075.php

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> Groups need to be balanced, make sure every `groupStart()` is matched
> by a `groupEnd()`.

#### \$builder-\>groupStart()

Starts a new group by adding an opening parenthesis to the **WHERE**
clause of the query.

#### \$builder-\>orGroupStart()

Starts a new group by adding an opening parenthesis to the **WHERE**
clause of the query, prefixing it with **OR**.

#### \$builder-\>notGroupStart()

Starts a new group by adding an opening parenthesis to the **WHERE**
clause of the query, prefixing it with **NOT**.

#### \$builder-\>orNotGroupStart()

Starts a new group by adding an opening parenthesis to the **WHERE**
clause of the query, prefixing it with **OR NOT**.

#### \$builder-\>groupEnd()

Ends the current group by adding a closing parenthesis to the **WHERE**
clause of the query.

#### \$builder-\>havingGroupStart()

Starts a new group by adding an opening parenthesis to the **HAVING**
clause of the query.

#### \$builder-\>orHavingGroupStart()

Starts a new group by adding an opening parenthesis to the **HAVING**
clause of the query, prefixing it with **OR**.

#### \$builder-\>notHavingGroupStart()

Starts a new group by adding an opening parenthesis to the **HAVING**
clause of the query, prefixing it with **NOT**.

#### \$builder-\>orNotHavingGroupStart()

Starts a new group by adding an opening parenthesis to the **HAVING**
clause of the query, prefixing it with **OR NOT**.

#### \$builder-\>havingGroupEnd()

Ends the current group by adding a closing parenthesis to the **HAVING**
clause of the query.

## Inserting Data

### Insert

#### \$builder-\>insert()

Generates an insert string based on the data you supply, and runs the
query. You can either pass an **array** or an **object** to the method.
Here is an example using an array:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/076.php

</div>

The first parameter is an associative array of values.

Here is an example using an object:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/077.php

</div>

The first parameter is an object.

> [!NOTE]
> All values except `RawSql` are escaped automatically producing safer
> queries.

> [!WARNING]
> When you use `RawSql`, you MUST escape the data manually. Failure to
> do so could result in SQL injections.

#### \$builder-\>ignore()

Generates an insert ignore string based on the data you supply, and runs
the query. So if an entry with the same primary key already exists, the
query won't be inserted. You can optionally pass an **boolean** to the
method. Can also be used on **insertBatch**, **update** and **delete**
(when supported). Here is an example using the array of the above
example:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/078.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>getCompiledInsert()

Compiles the insertion query just like `$builder->insert()` but does not
*run* the query. This method simply returns the SQL query as a string.

Example:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/079.php

</div>

The first parameter enables you to set whether or not the query builder
query will be reset (by default it will be--just like
`$builder->insert()`):

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/080.php

</div>

The reason the second query worked is that the first parameter is set to
`false`.

> [!NOTE]
> This method doesn't work for batch inserts.

### insertBatch

#### \$builder-\>insertBatch()

Generates an insert string based on the data you supply, and runs the
query. You can either pass an **array** or an **object** to the method.
Here is an example using an array:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/081.php

</div>

The first parameter is an associative array of values.

> [!NOTE]
> All values except `RawSql` are escaped automatically producing safer
> queries.

> [!WARNING]
> When you use `RawSql`, you MUST escape the data manually. Failure to
> do so could result in SQL injections.

You can also insert from a query:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/117.php

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> `setQueryAsData()` can be used since v4.3.0.

> [!NOTE]
> It is required to alias the columns of the select query to match those
> of the target table.

## Upserting Data

### Upsert

#### \$builder-\>upsert()

<div class="versionadded">

4.3.0

</div>

Generates an upsert string based on the data you supply, and runs the
query. You can either pass an **array** or an **object** to the method.
By default a constraint will be defined in order. A primary key will be
selected first and then unique keys. MySQL will use any constraint by
default. Here is an example using an array:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/112.php

</div>

The first parameter is an associative array of values.

Here is an example using an object:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/113.php

</div>

The first parameter is an object.

> [!NOTE]
> All values are escaped automatically producing safer queries.

#### \$builder-\>getCompiledUpsert()

<div class="versionadded">

4.3.0

</div>

Compiles the upsert query just like `$builder->upsert()` but does not
*run* the query. This method simply returns the SQL query as a string.

Example:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/114.php

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> This method doesn't work for batch upserts.

### upsertBatch

#### \$builder-\>upsertBatch()

<div class="versionadded">

4.3.0

</div>

Generates an upsert string based on the data you supply, and runs the
query. You can either pass an **array** or an **object** to the method.
By default a constraint will be defined in order. A primary key will be
selected first and then unique keys. MySQL will use any constraint by
default. Here is an example using an array:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/108.php

</div>

The first parameter is an associative array of values.

> [!NOTE]
> All values are escaped automatically producing safer queries.

You can also upsert from a query:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/115.php

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> The `setQueryAsData()`, `onConstraint()`, and `updateFields()` methods
> can be used since v4.3.0.

> [!NOTE]
> It is required to alias the columns of the select query to match those
> of the target table.

#### \$builder-\>onConstraint()

<div class="versionadded">

4.3.0

</div>

Allows manually setting constraint to be used for upsert. This does not
work with MySQL because MySQL checks all constraints by default.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/109.php

</div>

This method accepts a string or an array of columns.

#### \$builder-\>updateFields()

<div class="versionadded">

4.3.0

</div>

Allows manually setting the fields to be updated when performing
upserts.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/110.php

</div>

This method accepts a string, an array of columns, or RawSql. You can
also specify an extra column to be updated that isn't included in the
dataset. This can be done by setting the second parameter to `true`.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/111.php

</div>

Notice that the `updated_at` field is not inserted but is used on
update.

## Updating Data

### Update

#### \$builder-\>replace()

This method executes a **REPLACE** statement, which is basically the SQL
standard for (optional) **DELETE** + **INSERT**, using *PRIMARY* and
*UNIQUE* keys as the determining factor. In our case, it will save you
from the need to implement complex logics with different combinations of
`select()`, `update()`, `delete()` and `insert()` calls.

Example:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/082.php

</div>

In the above example, if we assume that the `title` field is our primary
key, then if a row containing `My title` as the `title` value, that row
will be deleted with our new row data replacing it.

Usage of the `set()` method is also allowed and all values are
automatically escaped, just like with `insert()`.

#### \$builder-\>set()

This method enables you to set values for inserts or updates.

**It can be used instead of passing a data array directly to the
insert() or update() methods:**

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/083.php

</div>

If you use multiple method called they will be assembled properly based
on whether you are doing an insert or an update:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/084.php

</div>

`set()` will also accept an optional third parameter (`$escape`), that
will prevent the values from being escaped if set to `false`. To
illustrate the difference, here is `set()` used both with and without
the escape parameter.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/085.php

</div>

You can also pass an associative array to this method:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/086.php

</div>

Or an object:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/087.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>update()

Generates an update string and runs the query based on the data you
supply. You can pass an **array** or an **object** to the method. Here
is an example using an array:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/088.php

</div>

Or you can supply an object:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/089.php

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> All values except `RawSql` are escaped automatically producing safer
> queries.

> [!WARNING]
> When you use `RawSql`, you MUST escape the data manually. Failure to
> do so could result in SQL injections.

You'll notice the use of the `$builder->where()` method, enabling you to
set the **WHERE** clause. You can optionally pass this information
directly into the `update()` method as a string:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/090.php

</div>

Or as an array:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/091.php

</div>

You may also use the `$builder->set()` method described above when
performing updates.

### UpdateBatch

#### \$builder-\>updateBatch()

> [!NOTE]
> Since v4.3.0, the second parameter `$index` of `updateBatch()` has
> changed to `$constraints`. It now accepts types array, string, or
> `RawSql`.

Generates an update string based on the data you supply, and runs the
query. You can either pass an **array** or an **object** to the method.
Here is an example using an array:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/092.php

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> Since v4.3.0, the generated SQL structure has been Improved.

The first parameter is an associative array of values, the second
parameter is the where key.

Since v4.3.0, you can also use the `setQueryAsData()`, `onConstraint()`,
and `updateFields()` methods:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/120.php

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> All values except `RawSql` are escaped automatically producing safer
> queries.

> [!WARNING]
> When you use `RawSql`, you MUST escape the data manually. Failure to
> do so could result in SQL injections.

> [!NOTE]
> `affectedRows()` won't give you proper results with this method, due
> to the very nature of how it works. Instead, `updateBatch()` returns
> the number of rows affected.

You can also update from a query:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/116.php

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> The `setQueryAsData()`, `onConstraint()`, and `updateFields()` methods
> can be used since v4.3.0.

> [!NOTE]
> It is required to alias the columns of the select query to match those
> of the target table.

#### \$builder-\>getCompiledUpdate()

This works exactly the same way as `$builder->getCompiledInsert()`
except that it produces an **UPDATE** SQL string instead of an
**INSERT** SQL string.

For more information view documentation for
`$builder->getCompiledInsert()`.

> [!NOTE]
> This method doesn't work for batched updates.

## Deleting Data

### Delete

#### \$builder-\>delete()

Generates a **DELETE** SQL string and runs the query.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/093.php

</div>

The first parameter is the where clause. You can also use the `where()`
or `orWhere()` methods instead of passing the data to the first
parameter of the method:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/094.php

</div>

If you want to delete all data from a table, you can use the
`truncate()` method, or `emptyTable()`.

#### \$builder-\>deleteBatch()

<div class="versionadded">

4.3.0

</div>

Generates a batch **DELETE** statement based on a set of data.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/118.php

</div>

This method may be especially useful when deleting data in a table with
a composite primary key.

> [!NOTE]
> SQLite does not support the use of `where()`.

You can also delete from a query:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/119.php

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> `$deleteBatch()` can be used since v4.3.0.

#### \$builder-\>emptyTable()

Generates a **DELETE** SQL string and runs the query:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/095.php

</div>

#### \$builder-\>truncate()

Generates a **TRUNCATE** SQL string and runs the query.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/096.php

</div>

> [!NOTE]
> If the TRUNCATE command isn't available, `truncate()` will execute as
> "DELETE FROM table".

#### \$builder-\>getCompiledDelete()

This works exactly the same way as `$builder->getCompiledInsert()`
except that it produces a **DELETE** SQL string instead of an **INSERT**
SQL string.

For more information view documentation for
`$builder->getCompiledInsert()`.

## Conditional Statements

### When

#### \$builder-\>when()

<div class="versionadded">

4.3.0

</div>

This allows modifying the query based on a condition without breaking
out of the query builder chain. The first parameter is the condition,
and it should evaluate to a boolean. The second parameter is a callable
that will be ran when the condition is true.

For example, you might only want to apply a given WHERE statement based
on the value sent within an HTTP request:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/105.php

</div>

Since the condition is evaluated as `true`, the callable will be called.
The value set in the condition will be passed as the second parameter to
the callable so it can be used in the query.

Sometimes you might want to apply a different statement if the condition
evaluates to false. This can be accomplished by providing a second
closure:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/106.php

</div>

### WhenNot

#### \$builder-\>whenNot()

<div class="versionadded">

4.3.0

</div>

This works exactly the same way as `$builder->when()` except that it
will only run the callable when the condition evaluates to `false`,
instead of `true` like `when()`.

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/107.php

</div>

## Method Chaining

Method chaining allows you to simplify your syntax by connecting
multiple methods. Consider this example:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/097.php

</div>

## Resetting Query Builder

### ResetQuery

#### \$builder-\>resetQuery()

Resetting Query Builder allows you to start fresh with your query
without executing it first using a method like `$builder->get()` or
`$builder->insert()`.

This is useful in situations where you are using Query Builder to
generate SQL (e.g., `$builder->getCompiledSelect()`) but then choose to,
for instance, run the query:

<div class="literalinclude">

query_builder/098.php

</div>

## Class Reference

> > returns  
> > The database connection in use
> >
> > rtype  
> > `ConnectionInterface`
> >
> > Returns the current database connection from `$db`. Useful for
> > accessing `ConnectionInterface` methods that are not directly
> > available to the Query Builder, like `insertID()` or `errors()`.
>
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Resets the current Query Builder state. Useful when you want to
> > build a query that can be cancelled under certain conditions.
>
> > param bool \$reset  
> > Whether to reset values for SELECTs
> >
> > returns  
> > Number of rows in the query result
> >
> > rtype  
> > int
> >
> > Generates a platform-specific query string that counts all records
> > returned by an Query Builder query.
>
> > param bool \$reset  
> > Whether to reset values for SELECTs
> >
> > returns  
> > Number of rows in the query result
> >
> > rtype  
> > int
> >
> > Generates a platform-specific query string that counts all records
> > in the particular table.
>
> > param int \$limit  
> > The LIMIT clause
> >
> > param int \$offset  
> > The OFFSET clause
> >
> > param bool \$reset  
> > Do we want to clear query builder values?
> >
> > returns  
> > `\CodeIgniter\Database\ResultInterface` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `\CodeIgniter\Database\ResultInterface`
> >
> > Compiles and runs `SELECT` statement based on the already called
> > Query Builder methods.
>
> > param string \$where  
> > The WHERE clause
> >
> > param int \$limit  
> > The LIMIT clause
> >
> > param int \$offset  
> > The OFFSET clause
> >
> > param bool \$reset  
> > Do we want to clear query builder values?
> >
> > returns  
> > `\CodeIgniter\Database\ResultInterface` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `\CodeIgniter\Database\ResultInterface`
> >
> > Same as `get()`, but also allows the WHERE to be added directly.
>
> > param arraystring \$select  
> > The SELECT portion of a query
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `SELECT` clause to a query.
>
> > param string \$select  
> > Field to compute the average of
> >
> > param string \$alias  
> > Alias for the resulting value name
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `SELECT AVG(field)` clause to a query.
>
> > param string \$select  
> > Field to compute the maximum of
> >
> > param string \$alias  
> > Alias for the resulting value name
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `SELECT MAX(field)` clause to a query.
>
> > param string \$select  
> > Field to compute the minimum of
> >
> > param string \$alias  
> > Alias for the resulting value name
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `SELECT MIN(field)` clause to a query.
>
> > param string \$select  
> > Field to compute the sum of
> >
> > param string \$alias  
> > Alias for the resulting value name
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `SELECT SUM(field)` clause to a query.
>
> > param string \$select  
> > Field to compute the average of
> >
> > param string \$alias  
> > Alias for the resulting value name
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `SELECT COUNT(field)` clause to a query.
>
> > param string \$subquery  
> > Instance of BaseBuilder
> >
> > param string \$as  
> > Alias for the resulting value name
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a subquery to the selection
>
> > param bool \$val  
> > Desired value of the "distinct" flag
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Sets a flag which tells the query builder to add a `DISTINCT` clause
> > to the `SELECT` portion of the query.
>
> > param mixed \$from  
> > Table name(s); string or array
> >
> > param bool \$overwrite  
> > Should we remove the first table existing?
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Specifies the `FROM` clause of a query.
>
> > param BaseBuilder \$from  
> > Instance of the BaseBuilder class
> >
> > param string \$alias  
> > Subquery alias
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Specifies the `FROM` clause of a query using a subquery.
>
> > <div class="versionadded">
> >
> > 4.3.0
> >
> > </div>
> >
> > param BaseBuilder\|RawSql \$query  
> > Instance of the BaseBuilder or RawSql
> >
> > param string\|null \$alias  
> > Alias for query
> >
> > param arraynull \$columns  
> > Array or comma delimited string of columns in the query
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Sets a query as a datasource for `insertBatch()`, `updateBatch()`,
> > `upsertBatch()`. If `$columns` is null the query will be run to
> > generate column names.
>
> > param string \$table  
> > Table name to join
> >
> > param string \$cond  
> > The JOIN ON condition
> >
> > param string \$type  
> > The JOIN type
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `JOIN` clause to a query.
>
> > param arraystring \$key  
> > Name of field to compare, or associative array
> >
> > param mixed \$value  
> > If a single key, compared to this value
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Generates the `WHERE` portion of the query. Separates multiple calls
> > with `AND`.
>
> > param mixed \$key  
> > Name of field to compare, or associative array
> >
> > param mixed \$value  
> > If a single key, compared to this value
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Generates the `WHERE` portion of the query. Separates multiple calls
> > with `OR`.
>
> > param string \$key  
> > The field to search
> >
> > param arrayClosure \$values  
> > Array of target values, or anonymous function for subquery
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Generates a `WHERE` field `IN('item', 'item')` SQL query, joined
> > with `OR` if appropriate.
>
> > param string \$key  
> > The field to search
> >
> > param arrayClosure \$values  
> > Array of target values, or anonymous function for subquery
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Generates a `WHERE` field `NOT IN('item', 'item')` SQL query, joined
> > with `OR` if appropriate.
>
> > param string \$key  
> > Name of field to examine
> >
> > param arrayClosure \$values  
> > Array of target values, or anonymous function for subquery
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Generates a `WHERE` field `IN('item', 'item')` SQL query, joined
> > with `AND` if appropriate.
>
> > param string \$key  
> > Name of field to examine
> >
> > param arrayClosure \$values  
> > Array of target values, or anonymous function for subquery
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Generates a `WHERE` field `NOT IN('item', 'item')` SQL query, joined
> > with `AND` if appropriate.
>
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Starts a group expression, using `AND` for the conditions inside it.
>
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Starts a group expression, using `OR` for the conditions inside it.
>
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Starts a group expression, using `AND NOT` for the conditions inside
> > it.
>
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Starts a group expression, using `OR NOT` for the conditions inside
> > it.
>
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Ends a group expression.
>
> > param arraystring \$field  
> > Field name
> >
> > param string \$match  
> > Text portion to match
> >
> > param string \$side  
> > Which side of the expression to put the '%' wildcard on
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > param bool \$insensitiveSearch  
> > Whether to force a case-insensitive search
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `LIKE` clause to a query, separating multiple calls with
> > `AND`.
>
> > param string \$field  
> > Field name
> >
> > param string \$match  
> > Text portion to match
> >
> > param string \$side  
> > Which side of the expression to put the '%' wildcard on
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > param bool \$insensitiveSearch  
> > Whether to force a case-insensitive search
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `LIKE` clause to a query, separating multiple class with
> > `OR`.
>
> > param string \$field  
> > Field name
> >
> > param string \$match  
> > Text portion to match
> >
> > param string \$side  
> > Which side of the expression to put the '%' wildcard on
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > param bool \$insensitiveSearch  
> > Whether to force a case-insensitive search
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `NOT LIKE` clause to a query, separating multiple calls with
> > `AND`.
>
> > param string \$field  
> > Field name
> >
> > param string \$match  
> > Text portion to match
> >
> > param string \$side  
> > Which side of the expression to put the '%' wildcard on
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > param bool \$insensitiveSearch  
> > Whether to force a case-insensitive search
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `NOT LIKE` clause to a query, separating multiple calls with
> > `OR`.
>
> > param mixed \$key  
> > Identifier (string) or associative array of field/value pairs
> >
> > param string \$value  
> > Value sought if \$key is an identifier
> >
> > param string \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `HAVING` clause to a query, separating multiple calls with
> > `AND`.
>
> > param mixed \$key  
> > Identifier (string) or associative array of field/value pairs
> >
> > param string \$value  
> > Value sought if \$key is an identifier
> >
> > param string \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `HAVING` clause to a query, separating multiple calls with
> > `OR`.
>
> > param string \$key  
> > The field to search
> >
> > param arrayClosure \$values  
> > Array of target values, or anonymous function for subquery
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Generates a `HAVING` field IN('item', 'item') SQL query, joined with
> > `OR` if appropriate.
>
> > param string \$key  
> > The field to search
> >
> > param arrayClosure \$values  
> > Array of target values, or anonymous function for subquery
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Generates a `HAVING` field `NOT IN('item', 'item')` SQL query,
> > joined with `OR` if appropriate.
>
> > param string \$key  
> > Name of field to examine
> >
> > param arrayClosure \$values  
> > Array of target values, or anonymous function for subquery
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Generates a `HAVING` field `IN('item', 'item')` SQL query, joined
> > with `AND` if appropriate.
>
> > param string \$key  
> > Name of field to examine
> >
> > param arrayClosure \$values  
> > Array of target values, or anonymous function for subquery
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > param bool \$insensitiveSearch  
> > Whether to force a case-insensitive search
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Generates a `HAVING` field `NOT IN('item', 'item')` SQL query,
> > joined with `AND` if appropriate.
>
> > param string \$field  
> > Field name
> >
> > param string \$match  
> > Text portion to match
> >
> > param string \$side  
> > Which side of the expression to put the '%' wildcard on
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > param bool \$insensitiveSearch  
> > Whether to force a case-insensitive search
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `LIKE` clause to a `HAVING` part of the query, separating
> > multiple calls with `AND`.
>
> > param string \$field  
> > Field name
> >
> > param string \$match  
> > Text portion to match
> >
> > param string \$side  
> > Which side of the expression to put the '%' wildcard on
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > param bool \$insensitiveSearch  
> > Whether to force a case-insensitive search
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `LIKE` clause to a `HAVING` part of the query, separating
> > multiple class with `OR`.
>
> > param string \$field  
> > Field name
> >
> > param string \$match  
> > Text portion to match
> >
> > param string \$side  
> > Which side of the expression to put the '%' wildcard on
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > param bool \$insensitiveSearch  
> > Whether to force a case-insensitive search
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `NOT LIKE` clause to a `HAVING` part of the query, separating
> > multiple calls with `AND`.
>
> > param string \$field  
> > Field name
> >
> > param string \$match  
> > Text portion to match
> >
> > param string \$side  
> > Which side of the expression to put the '%' wildcard on
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `NOT LIKE` clause to a `HAVING` part of the query, separating
> > multiple calls with `OR`.
>
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Starts a group expression for `HAVING` clause, using `AND` for the
> > conditions inside it.
>
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Starts a group expression for `HAVING` clause, using `OR` for the
> > conditions inside it.
>
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Starts a group expression for `HAVING` clause, using `AND NOT` for
> > the conditions inside it.
>
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Starts a group expression for `HAVING` clause, using `OR NOT` for
> > the conditions inside it.
>
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Ends a group expression for `HAVING` clause.
>
> > param mixed \$by  
> > Field(s) to group by; string or array
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `GROUP BY` clause to a query.
>
> > param string \$orderby  
> > Field to order by
> >
> > param string \$direction  
> > The order requested - ASC, DESC or random
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values and identifiers
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds an `ORDER BY` clause to a query.
>
> > param int \$value  
> > Number of rows to limit the results to
> >
> > param int \$offset  
> > Number of rows to skip
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds `LIMIT` and `OFFSET` clauses to a query.
>
> > param int \$offset  
> > Number of rows to skip
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds an `OFFSET` clause to a query.
>
> > param BaseBulder\|Closure \$union  
> > Union query
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `UNION` clause.
>
> > param BaseBulder\|Closure \$union  
> > Union query
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds a `UNION ALL` clause.
>
> > param mixed \$key  
> > Field name, or an array of field/value pairs
> >
> > param mixed \$value  
> > Field value, if \$key is a single field
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds field/value pairs to be passed later to `insert()`, `update()`
> > or `replace()`.
>
> > param array \$set  
> > An associative array of field/value pairs
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values
> >
> > returns  
> > `true` on success, `false` on failure
> >
> > rtype  
> > bool
> >
> > Compiles and executes an `INSERT` statement.
>
> > param array \$set  
> > Data to insert
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values
> >
> > param int \$batch_size  
> > Count of rows to insert at once
> >
> > returns  
> > Number of rows inserted or `false` on failure
> >
> > rtype  
> > int\|false
> >
> > Compiles and executes batch `INSERT` statements.
> >
> > > [!NOTE]
> > > When more than `$batch_size` rows are provided, multiple `INSERT`
> > > queries will be executed, each trying to insert up to
> > > `$batch_size` rows.
>
> > <div class="deprecated">
> >
> > 4.3.0 Use `CodeIgniter\\Database\\BaseBuilder::setData()` instead.
> >
> > </div>
> >
> > param mixed \$key  
> > Field name or an array of field/value pairs
> >
> > param string \$value  
> > Field value, if \$key is a single field
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds field/value pairs to be inserted in a table later via
> > `insertBatch()`.
> >
> > > [!IMPORTANT]
> > > This method is deprecated. It will be removed in future releases.
>
> > param array \$set  
> > An associative array of field/value pairs
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values
> >
> > returns  
> > `true` on success, `false` on failure
> >
> > rtype  
> > bool
> >
> > Compiles and executes an `UPSERT` statement.
>
> > param array \$set  
> > Data to upsert
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values
> >
> > param int \$batch_size  
> > Count of rows to upsert at once
> >
> > returns  
> > Number of rows upserted or `false` on failure
> >
> > rtype  
> > int\|false
> >
> > Compiles and executes batch `UPSERT` statements.
> >
> > > [!NOTE]
> > > MySQL uses `ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE`, the affected-rows value per
> > > row is 1 if the row is inserted as a new row, 2 if an existing row
> > > is updated, and 0 if an existing row is set to its current values.
> >
> > > [!NOTE]
> > > When more than `$batch_size` rows are provided, multiple `UPSERT`
> > > queries will be executed, each trying to upsert up to
> > > `$batch_size` rows.
>
> > param array \$set  
> > An associative array of field/value pairs
> >
> > param string \$where  
> > The WHERE clause
> >
> > param int \$limit  
> > The LIMIT clause
> >
> > returns  
> > `true` on success, `false` on failure
> >
> > rtype  
> > bool
> >
> > Compiles and executes an `UPDATE` statement.
>
> > param arraynull \$set  
> > Field name, or an associative array of field/value pairs
> >
> > param arraystring\|null \$constraints  
> > The field or fields used as keys to update on.
> >
> > param int \$batchSize  
> > Count of conditions to group in a single query
> >
> > returns  
> > Number of rows updated or `false` on failure
> >
> > rtype  
> > int\|false
> >
> > > [!NOTE]
> > > Since v4.3.0, the types of the parameters `$set` and
> > > `$constraints` have changed.
> >
> > Compiles and executes batch `UPDATE` statements. The `$constraints`
> > parameter takes a comma delimited string of columns, an array, an
> > associative array, or `RawSql`.
> >
> > > [!NOTE]
> > > When more than `$batchSize` field/value pairs are provided,
> > > multiple queries will be executed, each handling up to
> > > `$batchSize` field/value pairs. If we set `$batchSize` to 0, then
> > > all field/value pairs will be executed in one query.
>
> > <div class="versionadded">
> >
> > 4.3.0
> >
> > </div>
> >
> > param mixed \$set  
> > Row of columns or array of rows, a row is an array or object
> >
> > param bool \$addToDefault  
> > Adds an additional column than those in dataset
> >
> > param bool \$ignore  
> > An array of columns to ignore from those in \$set
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Used with `updateBatch()` and `upsertBatch()` methods. This defines
> > the fields which will be updated.
>
> > <div class="versionadded">
> >
> > 4.3.0
> >
> > </div>
> >
> > param mixed \$set  
> > A set of fields or field used has keys or constraints
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Used with `updateBatch()` and `upsertBatch()` methods. This takes a
> > comma delimited string of columns, and array, associative array, or
> > RawSql.
>
> > <div class="versionadded">
> >
> > 4.3.0
> >
> > </div>
> >
> > param mixed \$set  
> > Row of columns or array of rows, a row is an array or object
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values
> >
> > param bool \$alias  
> > A table alias for dataset
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Used for `*Batch()` methods to set data for insert, update, upsert.
>
> > <div class="deprecated">
> >
> > 4.3.0 Use `CodeIgniter\\Database\\BaseBuilder::setData()` instead.
> >
> > </div>
> >
> > param mixed \$key  
> > Field name or an array of field/value pairs
> >
> > param string \$value  
> > Field value, if \$key is a single field
> >
> > param bool \$escape  
> > Whether to escape values
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining)
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder`
> >
> > Adds field/value pairs to be updated in a table later via
> > `updateBatch()`.
> >
> > > [!IMPORTANT]
> > > This method is deprecated. It will be removed in future releases.
>
> > param array \$set  
> > An associative array of field/value pairs
> >
> > returns  
> > `true` on success, `false` on failure
> >
> > rtype  
> > bool
> >
> > Compiles and executes a `REPLACE` statement.
>
> > param string \$where  
> > The WHERE clause
> >
> > param int \$limit  
> > The LIMIT clause
> >
> > param bool \$reset_data  
> > true to reset the query "write" clause
> >
> > returns  
> > `BaseBuilder` instance (method chaining) or `false` on failure
> >
> > rtype  
> > `BaseBuilder|false`
> >
> > Compiles and executes a `DELETE` query.
>
> > param arraynull \$set  
> > Field name, or an associative array of field/value pairs
> >
> > param arraystring\|null \$constraints  
> > The field or fields used as keys to delete on.
> >
> > param int \$batchSize  
> > Count of conditions to group in a single query
> >
> > returns  
> > Number of rows deleted or `false` on failure
> >
> > rtype  
> > int\|false
> >
> > Compiles and executes batch `DELETE` query.
>
> > param string \$column  
> > The name of the column to increment
> >
> > param int \$value  
> > The amount to increment in the column
> >
> > Increments the value of a field by the specified amount. If the
> > field is not a numeric field, like a `VARCHAR`, it will likely be
> > replaced with `$value`.
>
> > param string \$column  
> > The name of the column to decrement
> >
> > param int \$value  
> > The amount to decrement in the column
> >
> > Decrements the value of a field by the specified amount. If the
> > field is not a numeric field, like a `VARCHAR`, it will likely be
> > replaced with `$value`.
>
> > returns  
> > `true` on success, `false` on failure, string on test mode
> >
> > rtype  
> > bool\|string
> >
> > Executes a `TRUNCATE` statement on a table.
> >
> > > [!NOTE]
> > > If the database platform in use doesn't support `TRUNCATE`, a
> > > `DELETE` statement will be used instead.
>
> > returns  
> > `true` on success, `false` on failure
> >
> > rtype  
> > bool
> >
> > Deletes all records from a table via a `DELETE` statement.
>
> > param bool \$reset  
> > Whether to reset the current QB values or not
> >
> > returns  
> > The compiled SQL statement as a string
> >
> > rtype  
> > string
> >
> > Compiles a `SELECT` statement and returns it as a string.
>
> > param bool \$reset  
> > Whether to reset the current QB values or not
> >
> > returns  
> > The compiled SQL statement as a string
> >
> > rtype  
> > string
> >
> > Compiles an `INSERT` statement and returns it as a string.
>
> > param bool \$reset  
> > Whether to reset the current QB values or not
> >
> > returns  
> > The compiled SQL statement as a string
> >
> > rtype  
> > string
> >
> > Compiles an `UPDATE` statement and returns it as a string.
>
> > param bool \$reset  
> > Whether to reset the current QB values or not
> >
> > returns  
> > The compiled SQL statement as a string
> >
> > rtype  
> > string
> >
> > Compiles a `DELETE` statement and returns it as a string.
